Blog: Debezium Team Transitions to IBM (#1127)
debezium/debezium.github.io: _posts/2025-04-15-debezium-moves-to-ibm.adoc

---
layout: post
title:  "Debezium Team Transitioning to IBM: Continuing Our Upstream Journey"

> date:   2025-04-15

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date:   2025-04-17
```

tags: [ announcement ]
author: ccranfor
---

We're writing to share an important update regarding the Debezium team.

> As part of a broader strategic move, the Debezium team, along with Red Hat's Middleware and Integration Engineering and Products teams, will be transitioning to IBM in July 2025.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of a broader strategic move, the Debezium team, along with Red Hat's Middleware and Integration Engineering and Products teams, will be https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/evolving-our-middleware-strategy[transitioning to IBM] in July 2025.
```

+++<!-- more -->+++

We understand that news of this nature can come as a surprise, and we want to acknowledge the natural apprehension that accompanies change.
This decision, while unexpected, represents a strategic alignment of Java expertise between Red Hat and IBM, aimed at fostering greater innovation in the middleware space.

Let us be clear: **our commitment to Debezium remains unwavering**.

> The upstream-first development model that has been instrumental to Debezium's success will continue under IBM's stewardship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The upstream-first development model that has been instrumental to Debezium's success will continue under IBM's participation.
```

Your contributions and involvement in the Debezium project are highly valued and will remain essential.
This transition will not impact your ability to participate in the project.

> IBM is dedicated to maintaining and fostering the open-source neutrality of Debezium.

Reviewer 2: Dunno If we want to reinforce this recalling the foundation move.  WDYT?

Author: We prefer to avoid making an explicit link between IBM and the foundation. The move to the foundation is about the ownership of the project while the move to IBM is about whom the core developers are employed by, which are two separate concerns.

Reviewer 2: Well with the latest changes from Jiri and the clarification about "Team vs Project" mention the foundation is not necessary. :wink:

> IBM is dedicated to maintaining and fostering the open-source neutrality of Debezium.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IBM is dedicated to maintaining and continuing its contributions to the Debezium open-source project.
```

This move is about strengthening our collective ability to innovate within the Java ecosystem.
It is not a reduction move; it is an alignment move.

> We want to emphasize that this transition is focused on bringing together expertise and resources to enhance the future of Java-based technologies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want to emphasize that this transition is focused on https://markclittle.blogspot.com/2025/03/red-hat-middleware-moving-to-ibm.html[bringing together expertise and resources] to enhance the future of Java-based technologies.
```
